Our Nation's power and prosperity lies in rural parts. Empowering and uplifting rural women is strengthening nation. With this as the mainstay, our institution was started in June, 1964, in the ideal place Courtallam, with an appropriate and powerful name Sri Parasakthi under the control of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Board of Tamil Nadu, with the Commissioner, H.R.&C.E.(Admn.) Department as the President of the College Committee. Sri Parasakthi Educational Society was inaugurated on 6th October 1965 and it has been functioning till now. The college campus is 18.96 acres of land with a wide variety of trees, donated magnanimously by His Highness the Late Maharaja of Travancore.

Ever since its inception, the institution has been growing steadily, initially under the leadership of the chief promoter and Vice-President-cum-Treasurer, Thiru.A.R.Subbiah Mudaliar, and the Founder Principal Miss.S.Baghirathi, M.A., M.Litt. Our College was instituted with the sole objective of promoting women's education. Sri Parasakthi College for women, situated on the lap of sylvan settings and surrounded by silver cascades, is a source of knowledge, with high aims and ideals as the lodestar in its path of progress. In Organization and Management, from 1st June 2007, the Secretaryship and the Principalship have been bifurcated. The institution showed steady growth academically and made herself competent to take up new developmental activities of academic and cultural nature. The college was conferred autonomy in 1978, the only and first rural women's college tobe conferred autonomous status in the whole of India. With the conferment of academic freedom, the institution has designed its curricular programmes with social relevance and academic excellence the watchwords of autonomy. Today it is one of the important centers of higher education in Southern part of our country.

The college offers 11 U.G., 5 P.G. and 1 M.Phil., degree courses and also there are 2 approved research centres Tamil and Commerce departments under regular stream. The choice based credit system was introduced for U.G. and P.G. courses respectively in the academic years 2005-2006 and 2008-2009. Computer Education has become imperative in the present academic and professional scenario. To cater to this need of the hour the following academic programmmes are introduced. With the generosity of Devasthanams, the centralized computer centre was constructed in 2006. The long felt dire need of the institution to have a presentable platform for academic meetings and cultural programmes was fulfilled through the construction of a new spacious auditorium at the cost of Rs.50 lakhs. The library services and the office administrative work have been fully computerized. In this age of knowledge explosion, ample access to internet is provided within the campus in the departments of Mathematics and Computer science and in Library. All departments of science are well equipped with modern instruments needed for all necessary practical oriented studies with inverter/generator facilities. The institution has a hostel with 204 residents. Due to increasing transport facilities, the strength of residents is decreasing. Ever since the conferment of the autonomous status, Expert Committees from the U.G.C. and the Tamil Nadu Government have been reviewing periodically the functioning of autonomy. The committees have highly commended the optimal use of academic autonomy, in providing socially relevant and excellent curricular programmes to all stakeholders since 1978.

The recordable milestone in the history of the institution is the accreditation process done by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in January 2004. The institution was awarded B++ grade with high commendation for the student support initiatives and curricular programmes. The NAAC Peer Team strongly suggested starting of self finance courses. The institution has been enhancing her infrastructural amenities continuously by the funding from the U.G.C. in every plan period. The other suggestions by the NAAC peer Team have also been carried out.

Future Plans:

To elevate the institution into an institute of Excellence.
To start career oriented programmes (COP) subject to the approval and financial assistance from UGC for the proposals submitted by all departments.
To develop collaborative academic and research programmes with National and International Institutions and Industries.
To create instrumentation facility centre.
To enhance resource mobilization from various funding agencies.
To strengthen the community service to the society.
To facilitate effective Teaching learning through ICT.
To encourage the faculty to publish research articles in Refreed Academic journals.
To introduce E-library.